Letter from Robert Carter to John Stark,* September 27, 1727

                             --1--
                                
          Rappa[hannock, Lancaster County, Virginia] 
                        Sepr: 27th. 1727
                         Mr. John Stark
Sir 
This comes by Capt: Nicholson and Encloses 
a bill of Lading for 12 hhds of Tobbo: In mine by Bowman@ 
I told you of Some things I should want from which I doubt 
hath bin neglected hitherto but am in hopes it is not yet to late 
I would desire you to Send me in by the first Opportunity One 
hundred and Twenty of your best and largest Coverlets If I could 
have them Six Inches longer and a foot broader and thicker then 
[illegible] will much better Suit our Purposes 

                                --2--
                                  
 [I shou] ld also desire you to Send me the following things Goods 
 to witt One hundred and fifty Yards of broad white 
 mild plaiting One hundred Yards of Broad Rugland Grays, Six dozen large 
 Milld plading hose for negro men with large feet  
 Five dozen thick Kilmarnock milld Caps to be very large in the head 
 for Negroes. These things Mr. Reid# advises me will be very use
 full for our Negroes I request you will take the first Opportun
 ity to Send them in to me I am 

Sir 
Yor. very humble Servt 


Per Nicholson

NOTES

Source copy consulted: Robert Carter letter book, 1727 May-1728 July, Robert Carter
Papers (acc. no. 3807), Albert and Shirley Small Special Collections Library, University of
Virginia.

Robert Carter generally used a return address of "Rappahannock" for the river on which he
lived rather than "Corotoman," the name of his home, on his correspondence, especially to
merchants abroad. The county and colony have been added for clarity. 

[*] John Stark was a merchant, probably the one to whom Carter referred when he wrote to
Micajah Perry on 1723 July 4 that he had drawn an order on "Mr. Stark of Glasgow." On
that same day, he wrote to a John Stark, referring to Captain Bowman.

[@] Captain Samuel Bowman commanded the Lucia. Carter mentioned this vessel in his
diary in June 1724, and again on 1726 March 4 when he wrote that she "came in had 20
Weeks Passage."

[#] James Read (Reid) is not referred to as "captain" which means he was an official of John
Stark's firm on a trading vessel who was empowered to do its business in Virginia. He was
aboard the Charles, a Glasgow ship that was owned by Stark. Carter specifically refers to
"Your Ship" and "the Charles of Glasgow" in a letter to Stark of 1723 September 4. 
