WILL OF JOHN CARTER I

Source:	Will Book No. 10, vol. 2 1709-1727 Page 416 Lancaster Courthouse Recorded January 9, 1722 (with Codicil following)

I John Carter being sick in body but of good and perfect memorie do

make this my last will as followeth:

Imprimis:		I bequath my soul unto Almighty God and my body to the earth.

Item	I bequoath myland and housing wherein I now dwell unto my son John and his heirs male issue of his body

Item	I bequeath unto my son Robert & his heirs male issue of his body a thousand acres of land out of the pattin that was deserted by Col. Mathews and taken up by me (vizt) the neck of land that William Thatcher & William Hutchings had taken bounded upon a branch of Corrotomen and the neck of land formerly taken up by George Taylor and so much land lying behind these necks as will make up the'sd necks a thousand acres to him & his heirs male (vizt) my sonne Robert and his heirs male issue of his bodie:

Item:	My will is that if my sonne John die without issue male of his bodie that then the land and housing given him goe to my sonne Robert and his issue male. But in case my sonne Robert die without issue male or his issue male die without issue male, my will is that in case my son John have issue female that then my sd land & housing given him go to his issue female. But in case my sonne John have noe issue female my will is in case of no issue males nor issue female of my sonne John that then my land and housing given to my sonne John goe to my sonne Roberts female begotten of his bodie. But in case my sonne John nor my sonne Robert have noe issue male but issue female my will is that my sonne Roberts land goe also to his issue female. 3ut in case neither of my sonnes have issue of their bodies then my will is that my lands goe to my daughter Elizabeth Utie and her heires.

Item	My will is that the agreement between me and William Thatcher stand good provided he perform his part thereof: Thorough draught is among my writings and my sonne John is hereby impowered to confirm the agreement and to convey the sd fiftie acres in that agreement out of the first neck given to my sonne Robert who is to have besides this fiftie given to Thatcher his said thousand acres.

Item		My will is that my personal estate (vizt) goods and cattels be divided
	into three equall parts one third whereof I give to my sonne John
	provided he relinquish all former deeds of gift & claim noe part of
	my estate formerly given him but only his third part. Another third
	thereof I give to my sonne Robert, and the other third thereof be
	disposed as followeth (vizt) first my now wife Elizabeth is to be paid
	out of it five hundred pounds which is due to her by a contract made
	between me & herself before marriage which is to be in full satisfaction

67
thereof and then the remaining part of this third I give to her young sonne after she is paid her rive hundred pounds, soe that the mother and her sonne is to have this last third between them.

Item	My will is in case my sd wife will not stand to this my will and be contented with the five hundred pounds due by contract and now mentioned in my will in full payment thereof and not intended as a legacie but as payment of a debt, then my will is that the disposal of this left third be void and that after she is paid what is due to her by contract before marriage there being nothing more due to her by marriage with me, either in conscience land or justice, that then my will is that the remainder of this last third belong to my said sonnes John & Robert and her sonne only to have five pounds sterling and she to have nothing out of my estate besides what is due to her by contract in satisfaction whereof this five hundred pounds intended in my will as part of the said last third: Yet besides this she is to have twenty five acres of land mentioned in the said contract being her jointure of land in lieu of dower in my land. But if in case my wife doth stand to her contract and be therewith content in full of all dues by marriage with me, then my will is that she have also the negro boy called Walter and also enjoy her necklace of pearls and diamond ring given her by me and also the bed rugg blankets pillowes & the red curtains & vallance with a pair of sheets which is the bedde & furniture wch I commonly lay upon in my chamber and also the dozen of diaper napkins with a blew streak at both ends and too or three course towells she brought with her and also my black lutestring and coloured sarsenett for a gown & petticoats and also her spoons and also my little flat trunke which her clothes are in.

Item	My will is that my daughter Elizabeth Utie have ten pounds sterling she having already had a good considerable portion.

Item	My will is that my sonne Robert have his mother's hoop ring & christall necklace.

Item	My will is that my sonne John have his mother's hoop ring and my small rings and the Elizabeth peice of gold.

Item	My will is that my sonne John have all my books only my sonne Robert to have the sixt part of them in goodness & value, and my wife to have David's Tears & Byfield's Treatie and the Whole Duty of Man and her own books.

Item	My will is that my sonne Robert in his minority be well educated for the use of his estate and the principall not to be diminished.

Item		My will is that my son Robert during his minority have a man or youth
	servant bought for him that hath been brought up in the Latin School
	and that he constantly tend upon him not only to teach him his books
	either in English or Latin according to his capacity (for my will is
	that he shall learne both Latin & English and to write) but also to
	preserve him from harm and from doing evill and as soon as one is free
	or dead my will is that he have another bought.
		6 8
Item	My will is that my Executors allow my wife yearly for her sonne's education ten pounds per annum during his minority if he live in consideration of the use of his portion but the first year not to be allowed because I am to pay the nurse.

Item	My will is that in case my wife put her sonne out to apprentice then so much of his portion be paid as is thought necessarie to bind him out to a good trade and after he is put to apprentice he is to be allowed but five pounds annually for his maintenance till he come to age and for the other five pounds per annum is to be abated out of his maintenance.

Item	My will is that my sonne John allow to my wife's sonne (whose name is intended Charles) necessarie clothes & linnen for this year.

Item	My will is that all former deeds or gifts made to my sonne John before my last marriage with my now wife Elizabeth be void the portion which I now give in this will being in full satisfaction thereof and more than the former.

Item	My will is if contrary to my expectation and his promise anything should be recovered by the sd former deed or deeds of gift my will is that all legacies now given to my sonne John in this will be void the land excepted.

Item	My will is that all the rest of my estate be duly inventoryed by my sonne John & duly & justly appraised without wrong to any of my children and that all goods of England not used be valued twentie per centum more than they left in England adding first the pettie charges.

Item	I do hereby declare that all former dealing between me and merchants as to their accounts be fully ballanced my late dealings excepted which fresh accounts will show what is due to me or them.

Item	My will is that if I die in crop time that then my estate be not divided nor appraised till the crop be finished and likewise my will is that the crop be sent to England and the produce to be added to my estate.

Item	My will is that my estate be praised in mony & my crop tobacco and other tobacco that is in my possession at my death after my tobacco debts be paid be sent to England and the produce added to my estate.

Item	My will is that my sonne John neither use clark nor sherif at the praismts & inventorying of my estate.

Item	My will is that all my debts and legacies except what is due to my my wife by her contract be first deducted and then what remains is to be equally divided into three equal parts soe that what is due to my wife my contract is to be reckoned in one third part and her sonne to have as much as will contervayle and make up his mother's five hundred pounds a third of my estate as was mentioned before.

69
Item	My will is that my sonne Robert be paid his portion when he comes to age in negroes English servants cattel & goods proportionall for the seating of a plantation at the same price as they were valued in my Inventorie consideration being had to the goodness & time to serve and age of the cattell or if he and the Executor  doe agree to pay part or all of his estate in mony by bills of exchange then their agreement to stand.

Item	My will is that all former codicils & wills made before be void and this to be my last will & Testament.

Item	My will is that my sonnes receive not from my Executor their portions which will be due to them by this will till they come to age.

Item	My will is that the bed & damask furniture be praised at twentie five pounds sterling.

Item	My will is that Mr. Thomas Haynes Mr. Thomas Maidstard Mr. Robert Griggs and Mr. David Miles be the praisers of this my estate.

Item	My will is that my sonne John be the Executor of this my last will & testament and in witness that this is my last will & testament I have hereunto set my hand this 15th day of September 1669.

Signed delivered & published	JOHN GARTER
in presence of us
	DAVID MILES
	EDWARD CARTER
	THOMAS EDMONDS
	JOHN 0 BUNNE

CODICIL

Codicil for addition to my will & testament made by me JOHN CARTER ESQ. being sound of memory & understanding: First my will is that this be written down & performed as my codicill:

Item	My will is that Thomas Edmonds & Josiah Willis have each of them one shift of the finest broad dowlace and each of them a pair of french falls and each of them a sute of the finest kersey in the house.

Item	My will is that James Percevall & James Prescott have each of them two shifts of the finest canvais and each of them a narrow dowlass shift & each of them a pair of french falls.

Item	My will is that David Miles have ten shillings more allowed him besides the ten shillings mentioned in the will and also my will is that Mrs. Miles have twentie shillings allowed her.

Item	My will is that my wife have twenty pounds Sterling instead of the negro boy and that the legacie of the negro boy be voyd and that if she please instead of this twenty pounds she have English Susanna and ten pounds Sterling.

70
Item	My will is that my wife have twenty pounds Sterling or after the rate of twenty pounds Sterling for a year or fifteen months provided she can make appear sufficient cause for the misliking of her accomodations or entertainment during the sd year or fifteen months also provided she take not out of my sonne hands above a hundred pounds sterling during the said fifteen months.

Item	My will is that my wife have three pounds sterling allowed her to buy cloth serge for morning and also my will is that my sonne John and my sonne Robert have each of them three pounds sterling allowed to buy the cloth for morning.

Item		My will is that my wife have my flat watch with one motion.

Item	My will is that my son John put aboard a ship for my wife three fatted muttons three fatted shotes and three barrels of Indian corn for her accommodation.

Item	My will is that my son John which is my executor mentioned in my will & testament make up the ten pounds sterling mentioned in my will towards the maintenance of my sonne Charles yearly be made twentie pounds Sterl.

Item	My will is that my sonne John procure my wife passage and her sonnes passage and her maydes passage in some ship that I take freight in.

Item	My will is that my daughter Elizabeth Utie have a hundred pounds or one hundred & fifty pounds in case she outlive her husband & her husband leave her poor the judgment of which poverty I refer to my sonne John so that if he see occasion for a hundred pounds or a hundred and fifty pounds he is to allow her either according to his discretion and according to her povertie, and my will is that the payment of this mony shall be thus, that in case my sonne John see occasion to allow her but a hundred pounds then to send to Capt. Bailey to send her ten servants although they will cost ten or fifteen pounds more but in case he see fitting to allow her a hundred & fifty pounds then to send to Capt. Bailey to send fourteen servants although they will cost something more.

Item	My will is that my daughter Elizabeth Utie have three pounds sterling to buy her cloth serge for morning.

Item	My will is that after my sonne Charles is put out to apprentice he is to have but eight pounds a year allowed him till he comes to age.

Item		My will is that my sonne Charles have Doctor Usher's Body of Divinity
	when he comes to		ears of discretion.

Item	My will is that my sonne Robert have Doctor Usher's Bodie of Divinity and the Whole Dutie of Man and the Practice of Piety and Doctor Nicolas Catachism.

Item		My will is that all former codicils be void.

71
Item	My will is that this my codicill doe noe ways make void my last will & testament dated the fifteenth of September 1669.

Item	My will is that my sonne John & my sonne Robert have the mares for a joint stocke betweene them my sonne John to have two parts and my sonne Robert one part and that my sonne John allow my sonne Robert so much money or tobacco as will make up his third part halfe and my will is that none of the mares be fould till the stocke become twentie brooding mares and then my will is that that flocke of twenty mares be preserved and then them or their increase may be fould after they are two years ould not before as Witnes my hand this third of

Januarie 1669.
	JOHN CARTER

Witness:
	Tho. Edmonds	At a court held for Lancaster County
	Jos. Willis	on the 9th day of January 1722
	Ao Dmi 1669
		On the motion of Col. Robert Carter
		the before written will & codicil
		with their proof.

72

I
